Title: Migrate from keystone v2.0 to keystone v3 OpenStack Liberty
Date: 2016-02-02 19:43
Author: egongu90
Category: OpenStack
Tags: auth, auth_url, core, guide, how to, keystone, migrate, openstack, packstack, rdo, services, Tutorial, v2.0, v3, version
Slug: migrate-from-keystone-v2-0-to-keystone-v3-openstack-liberty
Status: published

Migrate from keystone v2.0 to v3 isn't as easy like just changing the
endpoints at the database, every service must be configured to
authenticate against keystone v3.

I've been working on that the past few days looking for a method, with
the purpose of facilitate operators life's who need this kind of
migration.  
I have to thank Adam Young work, i followed his blog to make a first
configuration idea, after that, i configured all core services to make
use of keystone v3.  
If you want to check Adam's blog, follow this link:
<http://adam.younglogic.com/2015/05/rdo-v3-only/>

I used OpenStack Liberty installed with RDO packstack over CentOS 7
servers.  
The example IP used is `192.168.200.168`, use your own according your
needs.  
Password used for all services is `PASSWD1234`, use your own password,
you can locate your passwords at the packstack answer file.

<ins datetime="2016-02-02T18:25:21+00:00">**Horizon**</ins>

First we configure Horizon with keystone v3 as below:

    vi /etc/openstack-dashboard/local_settings

    OPENSTACK_API_VERSIONS = {
        "identity": 3
    }

    OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_MULTIDOMAIN_SUPPORT = True
    OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_DEFAULT_DOMAIN = 'Default'

<ins datetime="2016-02-02T18:25:21+00:00">**keystone**</ins>

Check your current identity endpoints

    mysql  --user keystone_admin --password=PASSWD1234  keystone -e "select interface, url from endpoint where service_id =  (select id from service where service.type = 'identity');"

Change your public, admin and internal endpoints with v3 at the end,
instead of v2.0

    mysql  --user keystone_admin --password=PASSWD1234   keystone -e "update endpoint set   url  = 'http://192.168.200.178:5000/v3' where  interface ='internal' and  service_id =  (select id from service where service.type = 'identity');"

    mysql  --user keystone_admin --password=PASSWD1234   keystone -e "update endpoint set   url  = 'http://192.168.200.178:5000/v3' where  interface ='public' and  service_id =  (select id from service where service.type = 'identity');"

    mysql  --user keystone_admin --password=PASSWD1234   keystone -e "update endpoint set   url  = 'http://192.168.200.178:35357/v3' where  interface ='admin' and  service_id =  (select id from service where service.type = 'identity');"

Ensure the endpoints are properly created

    mysql  --user keystone_admin --password=KEYSTONE_DB_PW   keystone -e "select interface, url from endpoint where service_id =  (select id from service where service.type = 'identity');"

Create a source file or edit keystonerc\_admin with the following data

    vi v3_keystone

    unset OS_SERVICE_TOKEN
    export OS_USERNAME=admin
    export OS_PASSWORD=PASSWD1234
    export OS_AUTH_URL=http://192.168.200.178:5000/v3
    export OS_PROJECT_NAME=admin
    export OS_PROJECT_DOMAIN_NAME=Default
    export OS_USER_DOMAIN_NAME=Default
    export OS_REGION_NAME=RegionOne
    export PS1='[\u@\h \W(keystone_admin)]\$ '
    export OS_IDENTITY_API_VERSION=3

Comment both pipelines, in public\_api and admin\_api

    vi /usr/share/keystone/keystone-dist-paste.ini

    [pipeline:public_api]
    # The last item in this pipeline must be public_service or an equivalent
    # application. It cannot be a filter.
    #pipeline = sizelimit url_normalize request_id build_auth_context token_auth admin_token_auth json_body ec2_extension user_crud_extension public_service

    [pipeline:admin_api]
    # The last item in this pipeline must be admin_service or an equivalent
    # application. It cannot be a filter.
    #pipeline = sizelimit url_normalize request_id build_auth_context token_auth admin_token_auth json_body ec2_extension s3_extension crud_extension admin_service

Comment v2.0 entries in composite:main and admin sections.

    [composite:main]
    use = egg:Paste#urlmap
    #/v2.0 = public_api
    /v3 = api_v3
    / = public_version_api

    [composite:admin]
    use = egg:Paste#urlmap
    #/v2.0 = admin_api
    /v3 = api_v3
    / = admin_version_api

Restart httpd to apply changes

    systemctl restart httpd

Check whether keystone and horizon are properly working  
The command below should prompt an user list, if not, check
configuration in previous steps

    openstack user list

<ins datetime="2016-02-02T18:25:21+00:00">**Glance**</ins>

Edit the following files, with the content below:

    vi /etc/glance/glance-api.conf 
    vi /etc/glance/glance-registry.conf 
    vi /etc/glance/glance-cache.conf 

    [keystone_authtoken]

    auth_plugin = password
    auth_url = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    username = glance
    password = PASSWD1234
    project_name = services
    user_domain_name = Default
    project_domain_name = Default
    auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000

Comment the following lines:

    #auth_host=127.0.0.1
    #auth_port=35357
    #auth_protocol=http
    #identity_uri=http://192.168.200.178:35357
    #admin_user=glance
    #admin_password=PASSWD1234
    #admin_tenant_name=services

Those lines, should be commented in all the other OpenStack core
services at keystone\_authtoken section

Edit the files below and comment the lines inside keystone\_authtoken
section.

    vi /usr/share/glance/glance-api-dist.conf 
    vi /usr/share/glance/glance-registry-dist.conf 

    [keystone_authtoken]
    #admin_tenant_name = %SERVICE_TENANT_NAME%
    #admin_user = %SERVICE_USER%
    #admin_password = %SERVICE_PASSWORD%
    #auth_host = 127.0.0.1
    #auth_port = 35357
    #auth_protocol = http

Restart glance services

    openstack-service restart glance

Ensure glance service is working

    openstack image list

<ins datetime="2016-02-02T18:25:21+00:00">**Nova**</ins>

Edit the file below and comment the lines inside keystone\_authtoken

    vi /usr/share/nova/nova-dist.conf

    [keystone_authtoken]
    #auth_host = 127.0.0.1
    #auth_port = 35357
    #auth_protocol = http

Edit nova.conf and add the auth content inside keystone\_authtoken,
don't forget to comment the lines related to the last auth method, which
were commented in glance section.

    vi /etc/nova/nova.conf

    [keystone_authtoken]

    auth_plugin = password
    auth_url = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    username = nova
    password = PASSWD1234
    project_name = services
    user_domain_name = Default
    project_domain_name = Default
    auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000

Configure nova authentication against neutron

    [neutron]
              
    auth_plugin = password
    auth_url = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    username = neutron
    password = PASSWD1234
    project_name = services
    user_domain_name = Default
    project_domain_name = Default
    auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000

Restart nova services to apply changes

    openstack-service restart nova

Check if nova works

    openstack hypervisor list

<ins datetime="2016-02-02T18:25:21+00:00">**Neutron**</ins>

Comment or remove the following entries at api-paste.ini and add the new
version auth lines

    vi /etc/neutron/api-paste.ini 

    [filter:authtoken]
    #identity_uri=http://192.168.200.178:35357
    #admin_user=neutron
    #admin_password=PASSWD1234
    #auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000/v2.0
    #admin_tenant_name=services

    auth_plugin = password
    auth_url = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    username = neutron
    password = PASSWD1234
    project_name = services
    user_domain_name = Default
    project_domain_name = Default
    auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000

Configure v3 authentication for metadata service, remember comment the
old auth lines

    vi /etc/neutron/metadata_agent.ini

    [DEFAULT]

    auth_plugin = password
    auth_url = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    username = neutron
    password = PASSWD1234
    project_name = services
    user_domain_name = Default
    project_domain_name = Default
    auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000

Configure neutron server with v3 auth

    vi /etc/neutron/neutron.conf

    nova_admin_auth_url = http://192.168.200.178:5000
    # nova_admin_tenant_id =1fb93c84c6474c5ea92c0ed5f7d4a6a7
    nova_admin_tenant_name = services


    [keystone_authtoken]

    auth_plugin = password
    auth_url = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    username = neutron
    password = PASSWD1234
    project_name = services
    user_domain_name = Default
    project_domain_name = Default
    auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000

    #auth_uri = http://192.168.200.178:5000/v2.0
    #identity_uri = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    #admin_tenant_name = services
    #admin_user = neutron
    #admin_password = PASSWD1234

Configure neutron auth against nova services

    [nova]

    auth_plugin = password
    auth_url = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    username = nova
    password = PASSWD1234
    project_name = services
    user_domain_name = Default
    project_domain_name = Default
    auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000

Restart neutron services to apply changes

    openstack-service restart neutron

Test correct neutron funtionality

    openstack network list

<ins datetime="2016-02-02T18:25:21+00:00">**Cinder**</ins>

Edit api-paste.ini with the following content

    vi /etc/cinder/api-paste.ini 

    [filter:authtoken]
    paste.filter_factory = keystonemiddleware.auth_token:filter_factory
    auth_plugin = password
    auth_url = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    username = cinder
    password = PASSWD1234
    project_name = services
    user_domain_name = Default
    project_domain_name = Default
    auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000
    #admin_tenant_name=services
    #auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000/v2.0
    #admin_user=cinder
    #identity_uri=http://192.168.200.178:35357
    #admin_password=PASSWD1234

Restart cinder services to apply changes

    openstack-service restart cinder

Ensure cinder is properly running

    openstack volume create --size 1 testvolume
    openstack volume list

Now, you can check if nova is working fine, create an instance and
ensure it is in ACTIVE state.

    openstack server create --flavor m1.tiny --image cirros --nic net-id=a1aa6336-9ae2-4ffb-99f5-1b6d1130989c testinstance
    openstack server list

If any error occurs, review configuration files

<ins datetime="2016-02-02T18:25:21+00:00">**Swift**</ins>

Configure proxy server auth agains keystone v3

    vi /etc/swift/proxy-server.conf

    [filter:authtoken]
    log_name = swift
    signing_dir = /var/cache/swift
    paste.filter_factory = keystonemiddleware.auth_token:filter_factory
    auth_plugin = password
    auth_url = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    username = swift
    password = PASSWD1234
    project_name = services
    user_domain_name = Default
    project_domain_name = Default
    auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000

    #auth_uri = http://192.168.200.178:5000/v2.0
    #identity_uri = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    #admin_tenant_name = services
    #admin_user = swift
    #admin_password = PASSWD1234
    delay_auth_decision = 1
    cache = swift.cache
    include_service_catalog = False

Restart swift services to apply changes

    openstack-service restart swift

Swift commands must be issued with python-openstackclient instead of
swiftclient  
If done with swiftclient a -V 3 option must be used in order to avoid
issues

Check if swift works fine

    openstack container create testcontainer

<ins datetime="2016-02-02T18:25:21+00:00">**Ceilometer**</ins>

Configure ceilometer service in order to authenticate agains keystone v3

    [keystone_authtoken]

    auth_plugin = password
    auth_url = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    username = ceilometer
    password = PASSWD1234
    project_name = services
    user_domain_name = Default
    project_domain_name = Default
    auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000

    [service_credentials]

    os_auth_url = http://controller:5000/v3
    os_username = ceilometer
    os_tenant_name = services
    os_password = PASSWD1234
    os_endpoint_type = internalURL
    os_region_name = RegionOne

Restart ceilometer services

    openstack-service restart ceilometer

Check ceilometer funtionality

    ceilometer statistics -m memory

<ins datetime="2016-02-02T18:25:21+00:00">**Heat**</ins>

Configure Heat authentication, since trusts are not stable use password
auth method

    vi /etc/heat/heat.conf

    # Allowed values: password, trusts
    #deferred_auth_method = trusts
    deferred_auth_method = password

Configure auth\_uri and keystone\_authtoken section

    # From heat.common.config
    #
    # Unversioned keystone url in format like http://0.0.0.0:5000. (string value)
    #auth_uri =
    auth_uri = http://192.168.200.178:5000

    [keystone_authtoken]

    auth_plugin = password
    auth_url = http://192.168.200.178:35357
    username = heat
    password = PASSWD1234
    project_name = services
    user_domain_name = Default
    project_domain_name = Default
    auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000

    #admin_user=heat
    #admin_password=PASSWD1234
    #admin_tenant_name=services
    #identity_uri=http://192.168.200.178:35357
    #auth_uri=http://192.168.200.178:5000/v2.0

Comment or remove heat-dist auth entries in order to avoid conflicts
with your config files

    vi /usr/share/heat/heat-dist.conf 

    [keystone_authtoken]
    #auth_host = 127.0.0.1
    #auth_port = 35357
    #auth_protocol = http
    #auth_uri = http://127.0.0.1:5000/v2.0
    #signing_dir = /tmp/keystone-signing-heat

Restart heat services to apply changes

    openstack-service restart heat

Ensure heat authentication is properly configured with a simple heat
template

    heat stack-create --template-file sample.yaml teststack

Most issues occurs in the authentication between nova and neutron
services, if instances does not launch as expected, review [nova] and
[neutron] sections.

Best regards, Eduardo Gonzalez
